Redux is a state management framework that can be used with a number of different web technologies, including React.
In Redux, there is a single state object that's responsible for the entire state of your application. This means if you had a React app with ten components, and each component had its own local state, the entire state of your app would be defined by a single state object housed in the Redux store. This is the first important principle to understand when learning Redux: the Redux store is the single source of truth when it comes to application state.
This also means that any time any piece of your app wants to update state, it must do so through the Redux store. The unidirectional data flow makes it easier to track state management in your app.
The Redux store is an object which holds and manages application state. There is a method called createStore() on the Redux object, which you use to create the Redux store. This method takes a reducer function as a required argument. The reducer function is covered in a later challenge, and is already defined for you in the code editor. It simply takes state as an argument and returns state.


npm install redux react-redux


redux cycle: action creator -> action -> dispatch -> reducers -> state

Redux ToolKit:  npm install @reduxjs/toolkit


After an action is created and dispatched, the Redux store needs to know how to respond to that action. This is the job of a reducer function. Reducers in Redux are responsible for the state modifications that take place in response to actions. A reducer takes state and action as arguments, and it always returns a new state. It is important to see that this is the only role of the reducer. It has no side effects — it never calls an API endpoint and it never has any hidden surprises. The reducer is simply a pure function that takes state and action, then returns new state.

Another key principle in Redux is that state is read-only. In other words, the reducer function must always return a new copy of state and never modify state directly. Redux does not enforce state immutability, however, you are responsible for enforcing it in the code of your reducer functions.

You define multiple reducers to handle different pieces of your application's state, then compose these reducers together into one root reducer. The root reducer is then passed into the Redux createStore() method.In order to let us combine multiple reducers together, Redux provides the combineReducers() method. This method accepts an object as an argument in which you define properties which associate keys to specific reducer functions. The name you give to the keys will be used by Redux as the name for the associated piece of state.